Sometimes just getting to talk to people
can be a challenge.
To overcome this obstacle,
we need to be flexible.
Takanori and Yumi Takahashi
have served in territories
that are as different as night and day.
Recently, they visited our studio.
Listen as they tell us how they have learned
to meet the challenges
of bearing thorough witness.
Takanori and Yumi,
welcome to our studio!
Thank you for inviting us.
And we’re very happy to have you here.
Takanori, you and I go back a long way.
I still remember when you came
into Japan Bethel back in 1977,
and we served in the same congregation
for a number of years.
But then in 1990, you had
a big change in your life.
Would you like to tell us what happened?
Yes, my twin brother,
Nobuaki, was also serving at Bethel.
To our surprise, we were assigned
to Papua New Guinea as missionaries.
That was a big change!
And here you are working
in the rural territory of Papua New Guinea.
During your 25 years in Papua New Guinea,
I understand that you served
in the missionary field,
in the circuit work, and also at Bethel.
So, Yumi, when did you come into the picture?
Takanori and I were married
in September 1993,
and I joined him in the missionary work.
Adapting to remote territories such as this
was a challenge.
So in order to bear thorough witness,
what kind of challenges
did you have to overcome?
The people of Papua New Guinea
are very friendly.
They have a deep respect for the Bible.
It was easy to relax,
speak to them face-to-face,
to read the Scriptures together,
and reason with them.
Those don’t sound like challenges.
Did you face any obstacles?
When we preached in the villages,
the response of the local people
often depended on the response
of the village chief.
If he listened,
almost the whole village listened.
But if his response was negative,
the people would walk away
and hide in the bush.
So we would always show respect
and approach the village chief first.
This often moved him
to view our visit with favor.
The challenge in the cities
was mainly security.
It wasn’t safe for us to go
into some areas alone
or to visit homes regularly.
So we would ask our Bible students
to come to the Kingdom Hall
for their study before the meeting.
That was a good way to encourage them
to attend meetings.
Well, it’s obvious that you enjoyed
your service in Papua New Guinea.
But now you’re serving as special pioneers
in the Maihama Congregation
just 20 minutes from downtown Tokyo.
So you went from a territory
where people have deep respect for the Bible
to a land where less than 1 percent
of the people claim to be Christian.
So, what other kind of differences
did you find
between your territory in Japan now
and your missionary territory?
Oh, it’s very different.
Tokyo Disneyland is in our territory,
and 70 percent of the homes
are in high-security apartment buildings.
We have to stand in the lobby
in front of the doorman,
push a button, and speak to a camera.
Coming from Papua New Guinea,
we found it challenging
to work this territory.
We were used to friendly discussions
face-to-face.
Now we see only the lens of a camera.
But we have learned
to view the camera as our friend.
As your friend?
I think most of us find it challenging
to speak to a camera.
So how do you overcome this challenge?
We know that as soon as we push the button,
our face shows up on a screen
inside of the apartment.
We stand an arm’s length from the camera
so that our face is framed nicely.
And we adjust our volume accordingly,
taking into consideration the doorman
and others who may be listening.
We say our greeting
about two seconds after we push the button,
just when we know
that they are looking at the monitor.
Our friendly greeting and warm smile
makes them feel like we
can actually see their face.
We prepare a specific appealing introduction
and show them respect and consideration.
The people in our territory
like to be viewed as successful,
not as people who have problems.
So we try to focus on positive subjects.
We prepare a variety of subjects
so that they don’t hear
the same message over and over.
Like many people, Japanese do not like
to be put on the spot.
So instead of asking a question
and waiting for them to answer,
we use the teaching method of our tracts
and give three possible answers
for them to choose from.
Well, have you had positive results
from this intercom preaching?
Since we started to use this method,
the number of not-at-homes has decreased.
And also, when we meet people on the street,
sometimes they say they know us
because they saw us on their intercom.
That was excellent!
And thank you, Takanori and Yumi,
for sharing with us
how you have met the challenge
of bearing thorough witness
in a variety of territories.